---
---


> To any Odist that would like to answer: What is the worst meal you have ever had in your entire life?

Which Offers Heat And Warmth In Fire
:   ([@hamratza](https://cohost.org/hamratza))

    I think there is food that is just poorly-made and food that is <em>ill-advised</em>. It is easy enough to think of a dozen bland, burnt, and bungled meals. But I think it is much more interesting to talk about those meals that were cooked to perfection and managed to land staunchly in the domain of <em>nauseating</em>.

    The worst <em>food</em> I ever ate was a miserable chili with exactly the right amount of lime and with beans still whole and a toothsome mire of beef and plenty of spice. The problem was that it was all <em>sideways</em>. There was just a little bit too much salt, not enough paprika, and it was too runny for the oily-fresh tortilla chips it was served with. All these little incongruencies made for an unpleasant lunch that was <em>just</em> short of unpalatable. If it were <em>any</em> worse, I would have dreamt up my own entrée instead out of protest.

    Codrin and ████ cooked me all sorts of delicious things before the launches; that is why so much of what I have published on the Reputation Exchange is just Balkan cuisine and baked treats. But ████ was always into <em>haute cuisine</em> in particular, and this occasionally resulted in some rather <em>interesting</em> experiments.

    But the worst <em>meal</em> I ever had must have been the private dinner shared between Rye and Serene and Dear and Codrin and ████ and I on the weekend before Launch Day. There was this menagerie of flavors throughout the evening, beginning with an enticing ratatouille that did a wonderful job of making me hungrier than I began.

    The conversation at the table was lively. We all were laughing and gossipping and teasing one another as we do, and I really liked that. I liked that, if this was to be our last meal shared just as a family, it was one when we were at our best. Rye told us about her latest correspondence with No Longer Myself, about a particularly heartbreaking experience she inherited from If I Dream. Rye weaved her musings about character development and Dear made a quip by asking her whether that was destined for her latest novel or not. Codrin, on the other hand, was upset. Ey did not like what ey learned about the first stanza from that story.

    So more food arrived to make up for the lull in conversation. We got an onion soup with a cheesy garlic bread served swimming so that it disintegrated and added a little weight to the stock. It was rich and dark and sat in my stomach like a rock, but it was mostly broth and so the sensation washed away with just a sip of wine.

    Dear tried to console Codrin by pointing out that what Rye told us was a story about <em>why</em> No Longer Myself was forked, that it was a hopeful story about reclaiming an identity appropriated by the inevitable politics of the clade. Ey did not seem convinced, but ey did manage a smile when Serene blurted, "Leave it to <em>Dear</em> to solve an interpersonal conflict with art!"

    We had our main course, then, of course, and what came was a generous fillet of salmon served on a cedar plank with tomato salad. After that runny affair, it was just what my belly needed. It was hearty and toothsome and comparatively light. I feared I might not make it to dessert with how wholesome the dish was, but the wetness of the salad had the effect of washing away that sense of fullness before it became sore.

    One of the topics that came up between our mouthfuls was how Dear was calling it its "death day". Codrin brought it up, and Dear shot em a sharp look. Ey raised eir hands and apologized, but I spoke up to ask why Dear's idea bothered Dear. ████ explained that they three had agreed not to discuss that at the table tonight, to which Codrin protested. "I thought it might lighten the mood," ey said, and Rye agreed. The final course interrupted us before Dear could answer, naturally.

    Dessert was a plain and simple flan. Its texture was luxurious, the salty-sweetness a delightful answer to the savoriness lingering on our palates and coating the dish. The serving size might leave something to be desired if not for the fact that we just spent the last two hours eating. I think all of us welcomed how quaint it was.

    Dear sat in silence for a while after finishing its dessert, fiddling with its wine glass. Then something crossed its mind and it asked us to keep its next words in confidence, especially Codrin and ████. We all nodded, and it finally told us. It told us the obvious, of course, that they three would not be leaving any forks behind; that none of them will remain on the L<sub>5</sub> System.

    Then it said, "We will die, here." It talked about how they would each be mourned and how they would only speak from beyond the heavens like spirits. Codrin looked uncomfortable. Ey murmured, "For a while," to which Dear only answered, "Yes. For a while."

    The <em>food</em> was delicious. The <em>meal</em> was rendered joyless. There was something wrong that evening, and I did not pin it down until I read the <em>History</em> a few years later.
