---
---

> Would any of the Ode clade like to share a favorite work of poetry, excluding the Ode itself?

#### I Remember The Rattle Of Dry Grass:

I read this snippet of Neruda at a party for New Year's, 2399.

{{% verse %}}
Let us unleash all our bottled up happiness
and seek out some lost sweetheart
who accepts a festive nibble.
It is today. Today has arrived. Let us walk on the rug
Of the inquiring millennium. The heart, the almond
of the mounting epoch, the definitive grape
will go on depositing themselves in us,
and truth — so long awaited — will arrive.
{{% /verse %}}

#### Dear, Also, The Tree That Was Felled:

This poem by Dickinson, as well as being a fond memory from the past, expresses my views on memory well.

{{% verse %}}
There is a pain — so utter —
It swallows substance up —
Then covers the Abyss with Trance —
So Memory can step
Around — across — upon it —
As one within a Swoon —
Goes safely — where an open eye —
Would drop Him — Bone by Bone.
{{% /verse %}}

#### Dear The Wheat And Rye Under The Stars:

This is a newish translation by Eileen Cheng-Yin Chao of a poem by Xin Qiji.

<table><thead><tr><th></th><th></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>少年不識愁滋味</td><td>In youth I knew nothing of the taste of sorrow</td></tr><tr><td>愛上層樓。</td><td>I liked to climb high towers</td></tr><tr><td>愛上層樓。</td><td>I liked to climb high towers</td></tr><tr><td>為賦新詞強說愁。</td><td>To conjure up a bit of sorrow to make new verse.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>而今識盡愁滋味</td><td>Now I know only too well the taste of sorrow.</td></tr><tr><td>欲說還休。</td><td>I begin to speak yet pause</td></tr><tr><td>欲說還休。</td><td>I begin to speak yet pause</td></tr><tr><td>卻道天涼好個秋。</td><td>And say instead, “My, what a cool and lovely autumn.”</td></tr></tbody></table>        	
How lovely a depiction of growth!

#### May Then My Name Die With Me:

I found this ancient poem by a furry named Dwale titled Poem for a Deceased Lover. I was prowling through some furry literature at the time to send to a cousin of ours, Douglas Hadje, without telling him the source.

{{% verse %}}
Seven days had passed when I heard you died,
A message in the warm morning hours. Dawn
Rose, and no one said how I should go on,
Or wade this mire without my only guide.

Flown to space by what callous earth destroyed,
I chase the long-flying radio waves.
Far away from grief and a potter's grave,
I sift to find again your breathing voice.

Teacher, my every thought was yours to thresh,
So now what sure course would you recommend?
Your kind words turned to shrapnel in the end,
Pieces of you left here in my heart's flesh.

Lover, did you mean to leave this deep wound?
I would sell my world to kiss you farewell.
Eleven years facing perpetual Hell,
And all I can say is, "Too soon, too soon."
{{% /verse %}}

I sent him the second stanza, and this was his reply:

> Does this have to do with the launch? It certainly feels like! It feels like how even now my mind is chasing those radio waves that are coming from the LVs, now so far out of reach for any one of us that we can barely comprehend. But still, we keep on searching for those voices that come back to us ever slower. Did someone on the LVs leave you behind? Someone you love? Family? One of your forks? Basically, someone whose voice you keep on searching for. Or maybe they were one of the eight irretrievably lost personalities?
>
> “Far away from grief and a potter’s grave” makes a lot of sense to me as someone who left Earth behind. I don’t know what it was like when you uploaded, but I can see it as a way to dream of some place better.

(All by [@makyo](https://cohost.org/makyo))
